java/kudu-csd/README.adoc, before:

= Kudu CSD

This directory contains scripts and resources for building the Kudu CSD.

=== Changes to metric definitions

When changing the definitions of existing metrics in the Kudu CSD, it may
also be necessary to change them in the forked (older) CSDs. This is because
CM treats multiple instances of a metric with the same name as the same
logical metric, and expects them to match across all CSDs. If there's any
difference, CM will throw out the metric from all CSDs.

This requirement applies to _at least_ the following kinds of changes:

1. Conversion from a counter to a gauge (or vice versa).
2. Change in the metric's label.
3. Change in the metric's numeratorUnit.

=== Forking the CSD

When adding features to the CSD that break compatibility between the CSD and
older versions of Kudu, it's necessary to fork the CSD so each version runs with
a compatible CSD. Examples of when this has been necessary include:

* Adding a health test on a newly-introduced metric.
* Adding a command that uses a newly-introduced Kudu tool.

There may be other cases in the future.

To cross-reference with the instructions below, here are the commit IDs for a
fork of the Kudu CSD:

* http://github.mtv.cloudera.com/CDH/kudu/commit/857c1360ebc2955306c61103bf7b2da7009c847b[Changes to Kudu (cdh/kudu)]
* http://github.mtv.cloudera.com/Starship/cmf/commit/60587bd6b37[Changes to CM (Starship/cmf)]

At the time of writing, the latest Kudu CSD (the `kudu-csd` module) covers all
Kudu version of at least 6.1.0. Suppose that the CSD needs to fork to support
changes in Kudu 6.2.0. To perform the fork, take the following steps:

. Copy the `kudu-csd` folder with its contents to a new folder named
  `kudu-csd-{highest version covered}`, so in this example the folder
  would be named `kudu-csd-6.1`.
. Edit the root `pom.xml` for the Java project:
  * Add the new CSD as a module by adding the line
    `<module>kudu-csd-{major}.{minor}</module>` to the `<modules>` element of
    the `buildCSD` profile. In this example, the line would be
    `<module>kudu-csd-6.1</module>`.
. Edit `kudu-csd-6.1/pom.xml`:
  * Change the `artifactId` from `KUDU` to `KUDU{major}_{minor}`, so in this
    example the `artifactId` should be `KUDU6_1`.
  * Change the `name` to `Kudu CSD for CDH {major}.{minor}`, so in this example
    the `name` should be `Kudu CSD for CDH 6.1`.
  * Delete the `execution` that generates the MDL. It should be preceded by a
    comment containing the text `Generate the MDL`.
. Edit `kudu-csd-6.1/src/descriptor/service.sdl`:
  * Adjust the `min` and `max` keys of the `cdhVersion` object near the top of
    the SDL. The value of the `min` key should be the first version supported by
    the CSD, while the value of the `max` key should be the first version
    greater than the `min` version that is not supported by the CSD. In this
    example, the proper `cdhVersion` object would be
+
[source,json]
----
"cdhVersion" : {
  "min" : "6.1.0",
  "max" : "6.2.0"
}
----
. Generate the MDL. To do this, find or build Kudu master and tablet server
  binaries of the highest version covered by the CSD, then use the
  `generate_mdl.py` script to generate the MDL and save it as a file in
  `kudu-csd-{major.minor}/src/descriptor`. The script expects the binaries to
  be located in the standard `build/latest` symlink, which means they should
  be found in `../../build/latest/bin` relative to `generate_mdl.py`. In this
  example, the MDL must be generated with 6.1 binaries in `build/latest/bin`
  and the proper command to run in the `kudu-csd-6.1` directory is
+
[source,bash]
----
$ ./generate_mdl.py > src/descriptor/service.mdl
----
. Delete extra files:
  * Delete the fork's `generate_mdl.py`, so in this example delete the file
    `kudu-csd-6.1/generate_mdl.py`.
  * Delete the fork's `check_csd_compatibility.py`, so in this example delete
    the file `kudu-csd-6.1/check_csd_compatibility.py`.
. Edit `kudu-csd/src/descriptor/service.sdl`:
  * Adjust the value of the `min` key of the `cdhVersion` object to be the
    first Kudu version not supported by the new CSD module, i.e. the value of
    the `max` key in `cdhVersion` in the SDL for `kudu-csd-{major}.{minor}`. In
    this example the `min` key's new value is `6.2.0`.
. Test that the CSDs build by running:
+
[source,bash]
----
$ mvn -DskipTests -PbuildCSD verify
----
. Test the CSD:
  * Set up a cluster with CM on the latest version and CDH on the first
    version supported by the CSD fork. In this example, the CDH version should
    be `6.1.0`.
  * Remove the existing CSD for the latest versions of Kudu from
    `/opt/cloudera/cm/csd`. The CSD will be named like `KUDU-{CM version}.jar`,
    so, in this example, if the CM version deployed is `6.2.0`, the file
    `KUDU-6.2.0.jar` should be removed from `/opt/cloudera/cm/csd`.
  * Copy the CSD jars for the forked CSD and the latest CSD to the CM server.
    Add both to `/opt/cloudera/cm/csd`.
  * Restart the CM server and the CM management service. Check everything
    works as expected. Check that whatever addition prompted the fork is
    not present.
  * Upgrade CDH to the latest version, so the new CSD applies. Check everything
    works as expected. Check that whatever addition prompted the fork is working
    as expected.
. Commit the changes locally and get them reviewed.
. Push the changes. This needs to happen before CM is updated so that a new
  Cauldron build makes the new CSD artifacts available. It might take a couple
  of days. A `buildinfo` query can determine if the new CSD artifacts have been
  published by checking for the existing of the new `KUDU{major}_{minor}` jar.
  In this example, the following query would return a result if the jar is
  available:
+
[source,bash]
----
buildinfo contents $(buildinfo query --product cdh --version 6.x --tag official) | grep KUDU6_1 | grep jar
----
. Update CM with information about the fork. The master branch needs to be
  updated, and it might also be necessary to update the branch for a new minor
  release if the fork is happening after CM branches, before the branch is
  released, and the forked CSD should exist in the minor release. To make the
  necessary changes:
  * To the root `pom.xml`, add a dependency on the new Kudu CSD artifact. In
    example, the dependency XML would be
+
[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>com.cloudera.csd</groupId>
  <artifactId>KUDU6_1</artifactId>
  <version>${project.version}</version>
</dependency>
----
  * To `web/pom.xml`, add an `artifactItem` for Kudu in the `copy` execution
    (just search for KUDU to find the right spot). In this example, the XML
    would be
+
[source,xml]
----
<artifactItem>
  <groupId>com.cloudera.csd</groupId>
  <artifactId>KUDU6_1</artifactId>
</artifactItem>
----
. Have the CM changes reviewed.
. Push the change to CM using its normal commit flow. The precommits will fail
  until CM can find the new CSD artifacts from a new Cauldron build, so it
  might be necessary to wait a couple of days after the push to cdh/kudu before
  the push to CM can succeed.
. If people to complain that builds are broken, reassure them this is
  temporary because of the fork.
. Once everything is well again, the fork is complete!

Commit message:

[csd] upgrade docs to not use mvn
Kudu hasn't been using Maven for a while now. This adds the command
required to build the CSD with Gradle.

Change-Id: I39d68e4188be1d8dc46ba0d5580ff6e4bd61195e

java/kudu-csd/README.adoc, after:

= Kudu CSD

This directory contains scripts and resources for building the Kudu CSD.

=== Changes to metric definitions

When changing the definitions of existing metrics in the Kudu CSD, it may
also be necessary to change them in the forked (older) CSDs. This is because
CM treats multiple instances of a metric with the same name as the same
logical metric, and expects them to match across all CSDs. If there's any
difference, CM will throw out the metric from all CSDs.

This requirement applies to _at least_ the following kinds of changes:

1. Conversion from a counter to a gauge (or vice versa).
2. Change in the metric's label.
3. Change in the metric's numeratorUnit.

=== Forking the CSD

When adding features to the CSD that break compatibility between the CSD and
older versions of Kudu, it's necessary to fork the CSD so each version runs with
a compatible CSD. Examples of when this has been necessary include:

* Adding a health test on a newly-introduced metric.
* Adding a command that uses a newly-introduced Kudu tool.

There may be other cases in the future.

To cross-reference with the instructions below, here are the commit IDs for a
fork of the Kudu CSD:

* http://github.mtv.cloudera.com/CDH/kudu/commit/857c1360ebc2955306c61103bf7b2da7009c847b[Changes to Kudu (cdh/kudu)]
* http://github.mtv.cloudera.com/Starship/cmf/commit/60587bd6b37[Changes to CM (Starship/cmf)]

At the time of writing, the latest Kudu CSD (the `kudu-csd` module) covers all
Kudu version of at least 6.1.0. Suppose that the CSD needs to fork to support
changes in Kudu 6.2.0. To perform the fork, take the following steps:

. Copy the `kudu-csd` folder with its contents to a new folder named
  `kudu-csd-{highest version covered}`, so in this example the folder
  would be named `kudu-csd-6.1`.
. Edit the `settings.gradle` for the Java project:
  * Add the new CSD by adding the line `include "kudu-csd-{major}-{minor}"`
. Edit `kudu-csd-6.1/build.gradle`:
  * Change the `archivesBaseName` from `KUDU` to `KUDU{major}_{minor}`, so in
    this example the `archivesBaseName` would be `KUDU6_1`.
  * Delete the `generateMdl` task that generates the MDL.
. Edit `kudu-csd-6.1/src/descriptor/service.sdl`:
  * Adjust the `min` and `max` keys of the `cdhVersion` object near the top of
    the SDL. The value of the `min` key should be the first version supported by
    the CSD, while the value of the `max` key should be the first version
    greater than the `min` version that is not supported by the CSD. In this
    example, the proper `cdhVersion` object would be
+
[source,json]
----
"cdhVersion" : {
  "min" : "6.1.0",
  "max" : "6.2.0"
}
----
. Generate the MDL. To do this, find or build Kudu master and tablet server
  binaries of the highest version covered by the CSD, then use the
  `generate_mdl.py` script to generate the MDL and save it as a file in
  `kudu-csd-{major.minor}/src/descriptor`. The script expects the binaries to
  be located in the standard `build/latest` symlink, which means they should
  be found in `../../build/latest/bin` relative to `generate_mdl.py`. In this
  example, the MDL must be generated with 6.1 binaries in `build/latest/bin`
  and the proper command to run in the `kudu-csd-6.1` directory is
+
[source,bash]
----
$ ./generate_mdl.py > src/descriptor/service.mdl
----
. Delete extra files:
  * Delete the fork's `generate_mdl.py`, so in this example delete the file
    `kudu-csd-6.1/generate_mdl.py`.
  * Delete the fork's `check_csd_compatibility.py`, so in this example delete
    the file `kudu-csd-6.1/check_csd_compatibility.py`.
. Edit `kudu-csd/src/descriptor/service.sdl`:
  * Adjust the value of the `min` key of the `cdhVersion` object to be the
    first Kudu version not supported by the new CSD module, i.e. the value of
    the `max` key in `cdhVersion` in the SDL for `kudu-csd-{major}.{minor}`. In
    this example the `min` key's new value is `6.2.0`.
. Test that the CSDs build by running:
+
[source,bash]
----
$ ./gradlew -PbuildCSD :kudu-csd:assemble
----
. Test the CSD:
  * Set up a cluster with CM on the latest version and CDH on the first
    version supported by the CSD fork. In this example, the CDH version should
    be `6.1.0`.
  * Remove the existing CSD for the latest versions of Kudu from
    `/opt/cloudera/cm/csd`. The CSD will be named like `KUDU-{CM version}.jar`,
    so, in this example, if the CM version deployed is `6.2.0`, the file
    `KUDU-6.2.0.jar` should be removed from `/opt/cloudera/cm/csd`.
  * Copy the CSD jars for the forked CSD and the latest CSD to the CM server.
    Add both to `/opt/cloudera/cm/csd`.
  * Restart the CM server and the CM management service. Check everything
    works as expected. Check that whatever addition prompted the fork is
    not present.
  * Upgrade CDH to the latest version, so the new CSD applies. Check everything
    works as expected. Check that whatever addition prompted the fork is working
    as expected.
. Commit the changes locally and get them reviewed.
. Push the changes. This needs to happen before CM is updated so that a new
  Cauldron build makes the new CSD artifacts available. It might take a couple
  of days. A `buildinfo` query can determine if the new CSD artifacts have been
  published by checking for the existing of the new `KUDU{major}_{minor}` jar.
  In this example, the following query would return a result if the jar is
  available:
+
[source,bash]
----
buildinfo contents $(buildinfo query --product cdh --version 6.x --tag official) | grep KUDU6_1 | grep jar
----
. Update CM with information about the fork. The master branch needs to be
  updated, and it might also be necessary to update the branch for a new minor
  release if the fork is happening after CM branches, before the branch is
  released, and the forked CSD should exist in the minor release. To make the
  necessary changes:
  * To the root `pom.xml`, add a dependency on the new Kudu CSD artifact. In
    example, the dependency XML would be
+
[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>com.cloudera.csd</groupId>
  <artifactId>KUDU6_1</artifactId>
  <version>${project.version}</version>
</dependency>
----
  * To `web/pom.xml`, add an `artifactItem` for Kudu in the `copy` execution
    (just search for KUDU to find the right spot). In this example, the XML
    would be
+
[source,xml]
----
<artifactItem>
  <groupId>com.cloudera.csd</groupId>
  <artifactId>KUDU6_1</artifactId>
</artifactItem>
----
. Have the CM changes reviewed.
. Push the change to CM using its normal commit flow. The precommits will fail
  until CM can find the new CSD artifacts from a new Cauldron build, so it
  might be necessary to wait a couple of days after the push to cdh/kudu before
  the push to CM can succeed.
. If people to complain that builds are broken, reassure them this is
  temporary because of the fork.
. Once everything is well again, the fork is complete!
